Add first CICD docs (#2287)
deepchecks/deepchecks: docs/source/user-guide/general/ci_cd.rst

=================================
Using Deepchecks In CI/CD
=================================

> CI/CD is a practice of automating steps in a software life cycle such as testing, and deploying. The same practice of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CI/CD is the automation of steps in a software life cycle such as testing, and deploying. The same practice of
```

> CI/CD is a practice of automating steps in a software life cycle such as testing, and deploying. The same practice of
> traditional software development can be applied to machine learning, which allows for frequent and automated testing
> and validation of models, which reduce the risk of errors and improve the overall quality of the model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CI/CD is a software engineering concept that is used to streamline the process of building, testing and deploying software products. CI/CD can also be utilized for the ML model lifecycle - to streamline the process of model training (and retraining), model validation and model deployment, which can reduce the risk of errors and improve the overall quality of the model.
```

> and validation of models, which reduce the risk of errors and improve the overall quality of the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and validation of models. This in turn reduces the risk of errors and improve the overall quality of the model.
```

> For example, CI/CD in machine learning can be used in scenarios such as:

Reviewer 3: I would first discuss in what use cases CI/CD can be useful -
Periodic retraining of a model
Data pipeline update
Model replacement

* Data integrity checks: Before the model training process, it’s important to validate the integrity of the data used

>   for training. This can include checks such as data completeness, missing values, and data type consistency.

Reviewer 2: Why is it important? You can say a few words about data pipelines and preprocessing functions that tends to break.

> * Model training: The model is trained on the validated data set.

Reviewer 3: I would greatly the part about validating train test split as it is our strength,
Normally to avoid leakage, the test will be of more current data so it may very well be drifted from the training set.
for Periodic retraining of a model this can also mean compering the current training batch to the previous training batch

Reviewer 2: I would rename this stage to Model Validation - and elaborate about what should be validated? give links to different checks and suites as examples.

Author: what? you would rename model training "model validation"?

* Model evaluation: The trained model is evaluated using test data and various metrics such as accuracy, precision,
  recall, etc.
* Model deployment: The model is deployed to production if it meets the specified criteria.

> By automating these steps through a CI/CD engine and utilizing deepchecks package in the pipeline, it ensures that the

Reviewer: Maybe a word about the fact that this replaces the traditional way to do that, which is manual testing and inspecting of graphs.

model is thoroughly tested and validated before it is deployed to production.

Deepchecks can be used in the CI/CD process at 2 main steps of the model training process:

* Before the model training process, it’s important to validate the integrity of the data used for training, and the
  train-test split

> * After the model training process, it’s important to validate the model’s performance.

Reviewer 2: It is not only performance!!!!!!

In this guide we will show an end to end examples of validating both data and the trained model, but in reality
you may want to split the process into 2 separate pipelines, one for data validation and one for model validation.
In addition we will use the default suites which are provided by deepchecks, but you can also create your own

> custom suites which fit your needs.

Reviewer 2: Instead of you, rephrase to 3rd party talking (e.g. it is recommended to split the process into 2 separate pipelines...)

Integrations
============

> Deepchecks can be used in any CI/CD platform, in this guide we will show how to integrate with Airflow and GitHub

Reviewer 2: Same comment

Actions.

Airflow Integration
-------------------

.. image:: /_static/images/cicd/airflow.png
   :alt: Airflow DAG example
   :align: center

Apache Airflow is an open-source workflow management system. It is commonly used to automate data processing,

> data science, and data engineering pipelines.

Reviewer: seems like 3 ways to say the same thing

In the following example we will use S3 to load the training data and to store our suite results. We define the first
2 tasks as short circuit tasks, which means the rest of the downstream tasks will be skipped if the return value of
them is false. This is useful in cases where we want to stop the pipeline if the data validation failed.
We can also add an additional step of deploying the model after the last validation has passed.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/cicd/airflow.py
    :language: python
    :tab-width: 0

We can access the result of the pipeline in our S3 bucket:

.. image:: /_static/images/cicd/s3_suites.png
   :alt: Airflow DAG example
   :align: center

GitHub Actions Integration
--------------------------
GitHub Actions is a service that allows you to run automated workflows, which can be triggered by events such as
pushing to a repository or creating a pull request.

We will use the same functions as defined in airflow above with slight changes, and run them in the GitHub Actions

> steps on every push to the `main` branch. Note that we might want to stop the pipeline in case of a suite not passing,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
steps on every push to the `main` branch. Note that we might want to stop the pipeline when a suite fails.
```

> in this case we can change the methods return types from `return suite_result.passed()` to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case we can change the methods return types from `return suite_result.passed()` to:
```

=================================
Using Deepchecks In CI/CD
=================================

CI/CD is a software engineering concept that is used to streamline the process of building, testing and deploying
software products. CI/CD can also be utilized for the ML model lifecycle - to streamline the process of model training

> (and retraining), model validation and model deployment. This in turn reduces the risk of errors and improve the overall

Reviewer: Last sentence is not necessary

quality of the model.

For example, CI/CD in machine learning can be used in different steps such as:

* Data integrity validation: When the data used for training is collected via automatic processes and pipelines,

>   it is possible the data will contain errors and problems we haven't encountered before, either due to a bug in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the data may contain errors and problems we haven't encountered before, either due to a bug in the
```

>   collection process or due to a change in the data source.

Reviewer: Should be nicer name for "collection process". Maybe ETL or data ingestion?

>   Examples of such problems include: missing values, outliers samples, high correlation between features,

Reviewer: maybe put one of our cooler examples, such as conflicting labels and different spellings of categories.

  label imbalance, etc.

> * Datasets comparison: In various scenarios it is needed to validate that there isn't any leakage or drift between 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Datasets comparison: In many cases it's useful to make sure that there isn't any leakage or drift between 2
```

  datasets. For example when doing a time based split of the data, there is increased chance that the split will create

>   a drift. Additional example can be for a periodic model retraining, where we might want to compare the new dataset

Reviewer: Rephrease "a drift"

>   a drift. Additional example can be for a periodic model retraining, where we might want to compare the new dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a drift. Another such case may be periodic model retraining, where we might want to compare the new dataset
```

>   to the previous.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to the previous one.
```

> * Model training: The model is trained on the validated data set.

Reviewer: What is the CICD usecase here?

Author: it's a general usecase, not deepchecks-y one

> * Model validation: The trained model is evaluated using test data and various metrics such as accuracy, precision,

Reviewer: Give cooler example for stuff you may want to validate.

  recall, etc.
* Model deployment: The model is deployed to production if it meets the specified criteria.

> The steps above are being performed manually today by running local tests, and inspecting graphs and reports. By

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In most cases, the steps above are done manually by running local tests, and inspecting graphs and reports. By
```

> The steps above are being performed manually today by running local tests, and inspecting graphs and reports. By

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps above are being performed manually today by running local tests, and inspecting graphs and reports.
```

  Examples of such problems include:
  :doc:`conflicting labels between similar samples</checks_gallery/tabular/data_integrity/plot_conflicting_labels>`,
  :doc:`high correlation between features</checks_gallery/tabular/data_integrity/plot_feature_feature_correlation>`,
  :doc:`spelling errors in categorical features</checks_gallery/tabular/data_integrity/plot_string_mismatch>`,
  and more.
* Datasets comparison: In many cases it's useful to make sure that there isn't any leakage or drift between 2
  datasets. For example, when doing a time based split of the data there is a risk that the datasets will have
  significant differences, or when doing a periodic model retraining we might want to compare the new dataset
  to the previous one.
  Examples of checks that can be used are:
  :doc:`drift between features</checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_feature_drift>`,
  :doc:`change in correlation between features and label</checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_feature_label_correlation_change>`,
  :doc:`duplicate samples between the datasets</checks_gallery/tabular/train_test_validation/plot_train_test_samples_mix>`,
  and more.

> * Model training: The model is trained on the validated data set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Model training: The model is trained on the (previously validated) training set.
```

> * Model validation: The trained model is evaluated using test data to get metrics and insights.

Reviewer: The trained model is evaluated on test data, testing for performance, weak segments and more:

  Such metrics include:
  :doc:`performance compared to naive model</checks_gallery/tabular/model_evaluation/plot_simple_model_comparison>`,
  :doc:`calibration score for each class</checks_gallery/tabular/model_evaluation/plot_calibration_score>`,
  :doc:`weak segments in the data</checks_gallery/tabular/model_evaluation/plot_weak_segments_performance>`,
  and more.
* Model deployment: The model is deployed to production if it meets the specified criteria.

In most cases, the steps above are done manually today by running local tests, and inspecting graphs and reports.
By using CI/CD these time consuming tasks can be automated, freeing up time for more meaningful work.

> Deepchecks can be used in the CI/CD process at 2 main steps of the model development process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deepchecks can be used in the CI/CD process at 2 main steps of model development:
```

> * Before the model training process, to validate the integrity of the data used for training, and check for any data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before model training, to validate the integrity of the data used for training, and check for any data
```

  drift or leakage between the train and test datasets.

> * After the model training process, testing model performance across different metrics and data segments, and get

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After model training, testing model performance across different metrics and data segments, and get
```
